# Robotic Dog
This project was conducted as my Honors project in Computer Science at Colby College from January-May 2019. The project included simulating robotic limb movement using Python, programming and Arduino Uno to control 12 servo motors (3 per limb) using C++, designing robotic dog limbs using CAD software, laser cutting the limbs and assembling the dog with servo motors, writing a paper on this work, and giving an oral presentation.

## Project Description
As robots develop the capability to perform more complicated tasks, stable locomotion will become a basic required element of all mobile robots. While walking robots may have various numbers of legs, four legs provide a reasonably stable platform without requiring excessive amounts of power and resources that would be necessary to control robots with more limbs. It is useful to base the gait patterns of these robotic quadrupeds on existing quadrupeds in nature, such as dogs. This project explores three different joint control algorithms in simulation using Python3.7 and on a robotic dog controlled by an Arduino Uno. The three algorithms include an inverse kinematics solution based on a predetermined foot trajectory, a forward kinematic solution based on joint angles collected from biological data, and a waypoint solution, which was found to be optimal for this project. The robot described in this paper was created specifically as a tool to explore different motor control strategies for reproducing canine gait patterns in robotic limbs; however, these motor control concepts are applicable to more complicated limbed robots as well.
